# AGI safety from first principles (Ngo, 2020) (only sections 1 and 2)

---
### Notes
>An example of the generalisation-based approach can be found in large language models like GPT-2 and GPT-3.
* i don't think that this is a *generalisation-based* approach, rather it seems to be a *task-specific*.
the reason i say that is because GPT {1,2,3} where created to predict the next word in a text corpus, and thats it.
they are unable to apply their models to any other domain than that very specific application. <br>
a generalisation approach would be if it were now able to be given only the ending of a sentance and correctly filled in
the first half.
> and then achieved state of the art results on many other language tasks
* maybe this is were the generalisation comes in? 


>"I think of task-based and generalisation-based as parts of a spectrum rather than a binary classification, particularly because the way we choose how to divide up tasks can be quite arbitrary." 
* <!-- [x] give an example for when this occured --> this was presented in the context of AlphaZero.
    * the commmunity was unsure how to classify its self-play.
        * some realised AlphaZeros capability being only specific to the task and unable to reason outside of it.
            * the argument was that it was specific to one application but i will prove that untrue shortly. 
            <br>
        * my proof to the contrary.
            * AlphaZero was actually able to perform on three games (very different in nature)
                * chess
                * go
                * ? 
            * AlphaZero went from *self-play*, to a completely new domain of playing against real humans. 


--- 
### Recall 0 | 02.07.24 | 30M <-> 45M

* what is this paper about?
    * this paper considers the possibility of some intelligence smarter than ourselves being created.

* "second species" argument
    * upon the creation of a superhuman level AI, we will fall into its power and no longer be the deciding force over all factors.
    rather the *power* will be in hands of these ai's

* how do we define intelligence?
    * the ability to generalise across multiple domains

* > "The task-based approach is analogous to how humans harnessed electricity: while electricity is a powerful and general technology, we still need to design specific ways to apply it to each task." 
    * ?

* what is meta-learning and how may AI's use it?
    * ?

* how were we {below} 'trained'
    1. as a species -- what skills?
        * through evolution, you could say that similar to AI, we have been *trained* in ..., social skills
    2. as individuals -- what fine-tuning?
        * ?

* split between the approaches
    * there are examples for where the AI community differ in views on *trivial* things
        * AlphaZero. was trained using RL self-play.
            * do we define the above as *tasked-based*? because it is only in the domain of chess that it flourished
            * or do define it as *generalisation-based*, because it went from closed env -- training (self-play). 
            and went to completely new env -- in test (human player)

*  

--- 
### Key Points
* "second species" argument
* tasked-based approach
* generalisation-based approach
* meta-learning
* ai duplication
* artificial general intelligence (AGI)
* collective AGI
* recursive improvement
* self-modification
